In this video, we're going
to look at how easy it is
to automate workbook
functionality using tables.
You may recall in the last week,
we created a drop-down
list to show
location and to make
it update dynamically.
We used the dynamic Named Range.
Now that worked,
but the problem of
the dynamic range is it's
quite complex to set up.
A lot of other people
who may be using
the workbook are not
going to understand them,
so they're not always
the best choice.
A much easier option
is to replace
the dynamic name
range with a table.
We're going to see how
we do that from scratch.
So I've removed the locations
named range that we
created last time and
we're going to do it
from the beginning.
So come to our Recon Analysis,
we're going to start with
creating our simple Named Range.
We're going to select Locations
down to Melbourne and
keyboard shortcut "Control +
shift + F3" and press "Enter".
So that's not a dynamic one,
but let's check if it's working.
Coming back to our
Invoice report,
we're going to come to Location,
click the drop-down and
there are two Locations,
so that's fine.
Now the problem is
a brand new city
has just come on board,
which is the city of Perth.
They actually just produced
a last minute invoice,
which Zara needs to
add into her data.
The first thing we want to do is
add Perth into our Summary data.
So it's picked up in
our drop-down list.
To have it picked up
dynamically or automatically,
we're going to convert
this data to a table.
So click anywhere in your data
and "Control + T" is our
keyboard shortcut.
Press "Enter". The
table has been added.
The banded rows do look
a little bit silly,
so we're just going
to turn this off.
Now let's see what happens
when we add Perth.
I'm going to click into A10
and type "Perth"
and press "Enter".
You'll notice the table has
automatically extended.
If we come and
check our Locations
Named Range, it includes Perth.
So as our table grew,
the Named Range also grew.
What that means is back
in our Invoice report,
I can select "Perth" from
my drop-down list, great.
Now we need to go and add
the new Perth record at
the bottom of this data.
We're going to switch our
filter to April because it's
an April invoice and we
want to add data at the
bottom of our table.
Going to switch
our total row off,
come back up to Table Design
and untick "Total row".
Now make sure you've
clicked into A89,
which is the first row
underneath the table.
We're going to type
our payment reference,
which is "24888_1"
and press Tab.
As we saw with the
previous example,
our table has automatically
extended down
and everything within the
table has extended as well.
So the named ranges,
the calculations, the formatting,
the Conditional Formatting, and
Data Validation all copy down.
So it's a lot of processes
being automated.
Now, we don't want to spend
ages typing the data in.
So for speed, I'm just going to
copy the data in the row above,
"Control + C" and click
into B89 and "Control + V".
Then I'm going to come into
my location and I'm
going to type "Perth".
When I tab, it
automatically goes
blue because that is
my selected Location.
Over here I was
going to type "800".
So we've now added
our new invoice.
Let's come back to our
Recon Analysis and just
see one Perth invoice for $800.
So this table is automatically
picking up the new values
because it's also referring to
the name branches
which have grown.
So we've now seen that we've
automated the
relationship between
our Recon Analysis and
our Invoice report simply
by adding two tables.
Let's take one last example,
probably the most important one.
I'm going to come back to my
Supply invoice statement.
We spent a lot of time
at the beginning of
this course adding in formulas
to clean up the data.
But the data is going to come
through and be
replaced every month
and we don't want to have to go
through all of that
every single month.
What we want is
something that can be
reused and by putting
it in the table,
we get exactly that.
Now to demonstrate this properly,
I'm just going to unhide
those columns we hid earlier.
So select "D" and "K",
right-click and "Unhide".
So there's all the data that
we had to start off with.
Everything from Column L
onwards is actually
calculations to clean it up.
So come next month,
what we're going
to do is clean out
this data because it's not
what we're working with anymore.
Then we're going to Import, Copy,
Paste the new data
into our table.
How do we clean it out?
Well, we can start by selecting
the first row and then
"Control + Shift + Down Arrow".
Then to remove, we're
going to either press
the "Delete" on
a ribbon or "Control +
minus" to actually
remove these rows.
So we're not just
deleting the data,
we're actually removing
those table rows.
The table is still there.
It still has all
the calculations,
all the Named Ranges,
but it doesn't have any
data in it at the moment.
When we get our new data and I've
got some demo data
sheets to work with,
I'm going to "Copy".
You can see that data is messy,
just like our earlier data.
When I come back to my
Supply Invoice Statement,
clicking the first empty
row of my table and paste,
"Control + V". It has
pasted the new data in,
automatically resized
the table and
automatically applied all
the cleaning operations.
So once you set up the table with
all the formulas which become
like rules in the table,
you can just reuse it thereafter.
So we have now automated the
whole process of cleaning
and summarizing our data
just by applying tables.
Applying tables
makes it much easier
to work with our
data at this level.
But as we start using
more advanced functions like
pivot tables and Power Pivot,
they become even more important.
So start thinking about
how you can start
using tables in your own data.